docs/mysql.md, before:

# MySQL on docker

ref: [MySQL Docker containers: the basics](https://severalnines.com/database-blog/mysql-docker-containers-understanding-basics)

## Installing

Create user

    # useradd -m mysql

Add user to docker group

    # usermod -aG docker

Go to user's home

    # su - mysql

Create container using official [MySQL Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/_/mysql)

    $ docker run --name=beta-mysql mysql

That command will fail because of mising root password

    $ docker run --detach --name=beta-mysql --env="MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=mypassword" mysql

View container logs to confirm server is up and running

    $ docker logs -f beta-mysql

## Connecting to the Container

mysql client must be installed on host machine `apt-get install mysql-client`

Retrieve IP address using:

    $ docker inspect beta-mysql | grep IPAddress
        "IPAddress": "172.17.0.21",
    $ mysql -uroot -pmypassword -h 172.17.0.21 -P 3306

To connect with another container, e.g. a wordpress container

    $ docker run --detach --name beta-wordpress --link beta-mysql:mysql wordpress

With the `--link` parameter the new container will have an alias name in `/etc/hosts` file

    $ docker exec -it test-wordpress bash
    root@0cb9f4152022:/var/www/html# cat /etc/hosts
    172.17.0.22    0cb9f4152022
    127.0.0.1    localhost
    ::1    localhost ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
    fe00::0    ip6-localnet
    ff00::0    ip6-mcastprefix
    ff02::1    ip6-allnodes
    ff02::2    ip6-allrouters
    172.17.0.21    mysql 0a7aa1cf196e beta-mysql

## Storing datafiles in host filesystem

    Create a data directory on the host system, e.g. /home/myproject/datafiles

    Start your mysql container like this:

    $ docker run --name project-mysql -v /home/myproject/datafiles:/var/lib/mysql -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=my-secret-pw -d --network project-net --restart unless-stopped mysql:5.7

## Expose MySQL container to the outside world

You can also expose the MySQL container to the outside world by mapping the container’s MySQL port to the host machine port using the publish flag (as illustrated in the above diagram). Let’s re-initiate our container and run it again with an exposed port:

    $ docker rm -f beta-mysql
    $ docker run --detach --name=beta-mysql --env="MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=mypassword" --publish 6603:3306 mysql

Verify if the container is correctly mapped:

    CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND                CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                    NAMES
    8d97b70658a9        mysql:latest        "docker-entrypoint.s   3 seconds ago       Up 3 seconds        0.0.0.0:6603->3306/tcp   beta-mysql
    0cb9f4152022        wordpress:latest    "/entrypoint.sh apac   15 minutes ago      Up 15 minutes       80/tcp                   beta-wordpress

At this point, we can now access the MySQL container directly from the machine’s port 6603.

## PHPMyAdmin

[Ref:](https://medium.com/@migueldoctor/run-mysql-phpmyadmin-locally-in-3-steps-using-docker-74eb735fa1fc)

To download the latest stable version of the image, open a terminal and type the following:

    $ docker pull phpmyadmin/phpmyadmin:latest

    $ docker run --name my-own-phpmyadmin -d --link my-own-mysql:db -p 8081:80 phpmyadmin/phpmyadmin

Let’s explain the options for the command docker run.

- The options `name` and `d` has been explained in the previous section.
- The option `--link` provides access to another container running in the host. In our case the container is the one created in the previous section, called `my-own-mysql` and the resource accessed is the MySQL `db`.
- The mapping between the host ports and the container ports is done using the option `-p` followed by the port number of the host (8081) that will be redirected to the port number of the container (80, where the ngix server with the phpMyAdmin web app is installed).
- Finally, the docker run command needs the image used to create the container, so we will use the `phpmyadmin` image just pulled from docker hub.

If everything went well you could see the running container by typing the following command:

    $ docker ps -a

Commit message:

adding recent crach with error `CPU does not support x86-64-v2 in the latest 8.4.0` for mysql docker image

docs/mysql.md, after:

# MySQL on docker

ref: [MySQL Docker containers: the basics](https://severalnines.com/database-blog/mysql-docker-containers-understanding-basics)

## Installing

Create user

    # useradd -m mysql

Add user to docker group

    # usermod -aG docker

Go to user's home

    # su - mysql

Create container using official [MySQL Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/_/mysql)

    $ docker run --name=beta-mysql mysql

That command will fail because of mising root password

    $ docker run --detach --name=beta-mysql --env="MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=mypassword" mysql

This will not persists data as there are no mount mappings

    * Dec 12, 2024.  `CPU does not support x86-64-v2 in the latest 8.4.0`
    use `mysql:8.4.0-oraclelinux8` e.g.

    $ docker run --detach --name=beta-mysql --env="MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=mypassword" mysql:8.4.0-oraclelinux8

View container logs to confirm server is up and running

    $ docker logs -f beta-mysql

## Connecting to the Container

mysql client must be installed on host machine `apt-get install mysql-client`

Retrieve IP address using:

    $ docker inspect beta-mysql | grep IPAddress
        "IPAddress": "172.17.0.21",
    $ mysql -uroot -pmypassword -h 172.17.0.21 -P 3306

To connect with another container, e.g. a wordpress container

    $ docker run --detach --name beta-wordpress --link beta-mysql:mysql wordpress

With the `--link` parameter the new container will have an alias name in `/etc/hosts` file

    $ docker exec -it test-wordpress bash
    root@0cb9f4152022:/var/www/html# cat /etc/hosts
    172.17.0.22    0cb9f4152022
    127.0.0.1    localhost
    ::1    localhost ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
    fe00::0    ip6-localnet
    ff00::0    ip6-mcastprefix
    ff02::1    ip6-allnodes
    ff02::2    ip6-allrouters
    172.17.0.21    mysql 0a7aa1cf196e beta-mysql

## Storing datafiles in host filesystem

    Create a data directory on the host system, e.g. /home/myproject/datafiles

    Start your mysql container like this:

    $ docker run --name project-mysql -v /home/myproject/datafiles:/var/lib/mysql -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=my-secret-pw -d --network project-net --restart unless-stopped mysql:5.7

## Expose MySQL container to the outside world

You can also expose the MySQL container to the outside world by mapping the container’s MySQL port to the host machine port using the publish flag (as illustrated in the above diagram). Let’s re-initiate our container and run it again with an exposed port:

    $ docker rm -f beta-mysql
    $ docker run --detach --name=beta-mysql --env="MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=mypassword" --publish 6603:3306 mysql

Verify if the container is correctly mapped:

    CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND                CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                    NAMES
    8d97b70658a9        mysql:latest        "docker-entrypoint.s   3 seconds ago       Up 3 seconds        0.0.0.0:6603->3306/tcp   beta-mysql
    0cb9f4152022        wordpress:latest    "/entrypoint.sh apac   15 minutes ago      Up 15 minutes       80/tcp                   beta-wordpress

At this point, we can now access the MySQL container directly from the machine’s port 6603.

## PHPMyAdmin

[Ref:](https://medium.com/@migueldoctor/run-mysql-phpmyadmin-locally-in-3-steps-using-docker-74eb735fa1fc)

To download the latest stable version of the image, open a terminal and type the following:

    $ docker pull phpmyadmin/phpmyadmin:latest

    $ docker run --name my-own-phpmyadmin -d --link my-own-mysql:db -p 8081:80 phpmyadmin/phpmyadmin

Let’s explain the options for the command docker run.

- The options `name` and `d` has been explained in the previous section.
- The option `--link` provides access to another container running in the host. In our case the container is the one created in the previous section, called `my-own-mysql` and the resource accessed is the MySQL `db`.
- The mapping between the host ports and the container ports is done using the option `-p` followed by the port number of the host (8081) that will be redirected to the port number of the container (80, where the ngix server with the phpMyAdmin web app is installed).
- Finally, the docker run command needs the image used to create the container, so we will use the `phpmyadmin` image just pulled from docker hub.

If everything went well you could see the running container by typing the following command:

    $ docker ps -a
